 Databses forms the foundation for AI agents. These are the sources of data on which they get trained. Also, their result are also stored in databases. These are structured form of data on the basis of which AI models make prediction and serve results. also, structured storage is necessary because it ensures data is consistent and follows the rule. For example, recommendation AI depends on the databases to store the result and make prediction for the next uuser.
The data model is formed on tables which forms an interconnected web or like a spreadsheet system. each row is a record and a column represents an attribute. Table is a collection of a certain type od data or results. Also, these table represents one entity at a time to have clarity in dat and avoid confusion if they get mixed together. It keeps the data clean.
A primary key is a column which makes every row or record uniques. It needs to be unique and non -null because uniqueness helps to recognize each record and retrieve it. Also, if it has null value, then that row will not have any identifier to retrieve it.
A database schema is the blueprint of what kind of table is, what type of datatype it holds and how many columns does exist. It also tells which column is going to act as primary key and which one as foreign key. It also put limits and rules on the data. It enesures efficiency in the system. It makes sure every row follows the same rule and has same structure and prevents any bad entries.
In relational databases, tables are connected each other through foreing key which is the common column in both the tables. It is the primary key of one table referencing to the to foriegn key of anotehr table to for lunkability. In the user table there would be user id which would be the primary ket in user table while in order table, tehre would be order id as primary key but would have user id which is the common link for both the tables, so this would works as foreign linking both table on common grounds